patches/README.md, before:

# Patches

These patches use [patch-package](https://github.com/ds300/patch-package) to update dependencies which have unpublished
fixes.

## @comapeo/core

### [Do not watch fallback map patch when setting up SMP server plugin](./@comapeo+core+4.3.0+001+fix-smp-fallback-map-setup.patch)

By default, core sets up a file watcher for the `fallbackMapPath` option that's provided when instantiating `MapeoManager`. This does not work when packaging the app as an ASAR file (via Electron Forge) because watching a file within the ASAR directory is not possible. Instead, we change the setup so that it does not try to watch the file and instead make the assumption that the file always exists on instantiation, which is generally the case in CoMapeo Desktop (for now).

## styled-map-package

### [Fix CORS issue when serving fallback map when in development](styled-map-package+3.0.0+001+fix-CORS-issue-in-development.patch)

The default fallback offline map fails to load the app due to CORS issue in development. This is because the app is technically being served from a development server in development, which thus has a different origin than the map server that the map is being served from.

Commit message:

feat: add custom background map importing (#288)
Closes #205 

Due to missing details in designs, includes implementations for the
following (some of which is based on mobile):

- removing a custom map
- failure to retrieve custom map info
- displayed custom map name in app settings index page

patches/README.md, after:

# Patches

These patches use [patch-package](https://github.com/ds300/patch-package) to update dependencies which have unpublished
fixes.

## @comapeo/core

### [Do not watch fallback map patch when setting up SMP server plugin](./@comapeo+core+4.3.0+001+fix-smp-fallback-map-setup.patch)

By default, core sets up a file watcher for the `fallbackMapPath` option that's provided when instantiating `MapeoManager`. This does not work when packaging the app as an ASAR file (via Electron Forge) because watching a file within the ASAR directory is not possible. Instead, we change the setup so that it does not try to watch the file and instead make the assumption that the file always exists on instantiation, which is generally the case in CoMapeo Desktop (for now).

### [Fix CORS issue when getting custom map info when in development](./@comapeo+core+4.3.0+002+fix-custom-map-info-cors.patch)

Making a fetch-based request for the custom map info fails due to a CORS issue in development. This is because the app is technically being served from a development server in development, which thus has a different origin than server that hosts the relevant endpoint.

## styled-map-package

### [Fix CORS issues when in development](styled-map-package+3.0.0+001+fix-CORS-issues.patch)

The maps served through the server plugin in this module can fail to load in the app due to CORS issues in development. This is because the app is technically being served from a development server in development, which thus has a different origin than the map server that the map is being served from.
